Add TiDB serverless branching in Vercel integration (#14835)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/integrate-tidbcloud-with-vercel.md

For both of the preceding methods, TiDB Cloud provides the following options for programmatically connecting to your database:

> - Cluster: connect your TiDB Cloud cluster to your Vercel project with direct connections or serverless driver.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Cluster: connect your TiDB Cloud cluster to your Vercel project with direct connections or [serverless driver](/tidb-cloud/serverless-driver.md).
```

One Vercel project can only connect to one TiDB Cloud Data App. To change the Data App for your Vercel project, you need to first disconnect the current App and then connect to a new App.

> # Connect via the TiDB Cloud Vercel integration

Reviewer: One L1 heading in one doc.

```suggestion
## Connect via the TiDB Cloud Vercel integration
```

To connect via the TiDB Cloud Vercel integration, go to the [TiDB Cloud integration](https://vercel.com/integrations/tidb-cloud) page from the [Vercel's Integrations Marketplace](https://vercel.com/integrations). Using this method, you can choose which cluster to connect to, and TiDB Cloud will automatically generate all the necessary environment variables for your Vercel projects.

> **Note:**
>

> > This method is only available for TiDB Serverless clusters. If you want to use a TiDB Dedicated cluster, please use the [manual method](#connect-via-manually-setting-environment-variables).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> This method is only available for TiDB Serverless clusters. If you want to use a TiDB Dedicated cluster, use the [manual method](#connect-via-manually-setting-environment-variables).
```

To connect via the TiDB Cloud Vercel integration, go to the [TiDB Cloud integration](https://vercel.com/integrations/tidb-cloud) page from the [Vercel's Integrations Marketplace](https://vercel.com/integrations). Using this method, you can choose which cluster to connect to, and TiDB Cloud will automatically generate all the necessary environment variables for your Vercel projects.

> **Note:**
>
> This method is only available for TiDB Serverless clusters. If you want to use a TiDB Dedicated cluster, use the [manual method](#connect-via-manually-setting-environment-variables).

> The detailed steps are as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

## Integration workflow

The detailed steps are as follows:
```

Reviewer 2: reason: 方便 https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/14835/files#r1328530395 这里引用

To connect via the TiDB Cloud Vercel integration, go to the [TiDB Cloud integration](https://vercel.com/integrations/tidb-cloud) page from the [Vercel's Integrations Marketplace](https://vercel.com/integrations). Using this method, you can choose which cluster to connect to, and TiDB Cloud will automatically generate all the necessary environment variables for your Vercel projects.

> **Note:**
>
> This method is only available for TiDB Serverless clusters. If you want to connect to a TiDB Dedicated cluster, use the [manual method](#connect-via-manually-setting-environment-variables).

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

    2. Select your target TiDB Cloud organization and project.
    3. Select **Cluster** as your connection type.
    4. Select your target TiDB Cloud cluster. If the **Cluster** drop-down list is empty or you want to select a new TiDB Serverless cluster, click **+ Create Cluster** in the list to create one.
    5. Select the database that you want to connect to. If the **Database** drop-down list is empty or you want to select a new Database, click **+ Create Database** in the list to create one.
    6. Select the framework that your Vercel projects are using. If the target framework is not listed, select **General**. Different frameworks determine different environment variables.

>     7. Choose whether to create new branches for preview environments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    7. Choose whether to enable **Branching** to create new branches for preview environments.
```

Reviewer 2: reason: 方便和 https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/14835/files#r1328525864 里的描述对应

    TIDB_PASSWORD
    ```

    **Prisma**

    ```
    DATABASE_URL
    ```

>    

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

</div>
</SimpleTab>

### Configure connections

If you have installed [TiDB Cloud Vercel integration](https://vercel.com/integrations/tidb-cloud), you can add or remove connections inside the integration.

1. In your Vercel dashboard, click **Integrations**.
2. Click **Manage** in the TiDB Cloud entry.
3. Click **Configure**.
4. Click **Add Link** or **Remove** to add or remove connections.

    ![Vercel Integration Configuration Page](/media/tidb-cloud/vercel/integration-vercel-configuration-page.png)

>     When you remove a connection, the environment variables set by the integration workflow are removed from the Vercel project, too. However, this action does not affect the traffic filter or the data of the TiDB Cloud cluster.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    When you remove a connection, the environment variables set by the integration workflow are removed from the Vercel project, too. However, this action does not affect the data of the TiDB Serverless cluster.
```

### Connect with TiDB Serverless branching

Vercel's [Preview Deployments](https://vercel.com/docs/deployments/preview-deployments) feature allows you to preview changes to your app in a live deployment without merging those changes to your Git project's production branch. With [TiDB Serverless Branching](/tidb-cloud/branch-overview.md), you can create a new instance for each branch of your Vercel project. This allows you to preview app changes in a live deployment without affecting your production data.

> **Note:**
>

> > Only [Vercel projects associated with GitHub repositories](https://vercel.com/docs/deployments/git/vercel-for-github) are supported for now.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Currently, TiDB Serverless branching only supports [Vercel projects associated with GitHub repositories](https://vercel.com/docs/deployments/git/vercel-for-github).
```

> To enable TiDB Serverless Branching, you need to:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To enable TiDB Serverless Branching, you need to ensure the following in the [TiDB Cloud Vercel integration workflow](#integration-workflow):
```

1. Select **Cluster** as your connection type. 

> 2. Enable TiDB Serverless Branching in the TiDB Cloud Vercel integration workflow.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Enable **Branching** to create new branches for preview environments.
```

> After you push changes to GitHub repository, Vercel will trigger a preview deployment. And then TiDB Cloud integration will automatically create a TiDB Serverless branch for the branch and set environment variables. The detailed steps are as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After you push changes to the GitHub repository, Vercel will trigger a preview deployment. Then, TiDB Cloud integration will automatically create a TiDB Serverless branch for the GitHub branch and set environment variables. The detailed steps are as follows:
```

> 1. Create a new branch in your Git repository.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Create a new branch in your GitHub repository.
```

Reviewer 3: I think `Git` is deliberately used here, not `GitHub`. `Git` means the VCS tech while `GitHub` means the VCS vendor, not the same.

Author: Yes, we should use Git here

    ```shell
    cd tidb-prisma-vercel-demo1
    git checkout -b new-branch
    ```

2. Add some changes and push the changes to the remote repository.
3. Vercel will trigger a preview deployment for the new branch.

    ![Vercel Preview_Deployment](/media/tidb-cloud/vercel/vercel-preview-deployment.png)

>     1. During the deployment, TiDB Cloud integration will automatically create a TiDB Serverless branch with the same name as the git branch. If the TiDB Serverless branch already exists, TiDB Cloud integration will skip this step.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    1. During the deployment, TiDB Cloud integration will automatically create a TiDB Serverless branch with the same name as the GitHub branch. If the TiDB Serverless branch already exists, TiDB Cloud integration will skip this step.
```

>     a. During the deployment, TiDB Cloud integration will automatically create a TiDB Serverless branch with the same name as the git branch. If the TiDB Serverless branch already exists, TiDB Cloud integration will skip this step.
> 
>     ![TiDB_Cloud_Branch_Check](/media/tidb-cloud/vercel/tidbcloud-branch-check.png)
> 
>     b. After the TiDB Serverless branch is ready, TiDB Cloud integration will set environment variables in the preview deployment for the Vercel project.
> 
>     ![Preview_Envs](/media/tidb-cloud/vercel/preview-envs.png)
> 
>     c. TiDB Cloud integration will also register a blocking check to wait for the TiDB Serverless branch to be ready. You can rerun the check manually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. During the deployment, TiDB Cloud integration will automatically create a TiDB Serverless branch with the same name as the git branch. If the TiDB Serverless branch already exists, TiDB Cloud integration will skip this step.

        ![TiDB_Cloud_Branch_Check](/media/tidb-cloud/vercel/tidbcloud-branch-check.png)

    2. After the TiDB Serverless branch is ready, TiDB Cloud integration will set environment variables in the preview deployment for the Vercel project.

        ![Preview_Envs](/media/tidb-cloud/vercel/preview-envs.png)

    3. TiDB Cloud integration will also register a blocking check to wait for the TiDB Serverless branch to be ready. You can rerun the check manually.
```

4. After the check is passed, you can visit the preview deployment to see the changes.

> **Note:**
>

> > Due to the limitation of Vercel deployment workflow, the environment variable can't be ensured to be set in the deployment. Please redeploy if facing this issue.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Due to a limitation of the Vercel deployment workflow, the environment variable is not guaranteed to be set in the deployment. In this case, you need to push new changes to trigger a new deployment.
```

Author: redeploy is not equal to pushing new changes.

</div>
</SimpleTab>

> ## Configure connections

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Configure connections
```

If you have installed [TiDB Cloud Vercel integration](https://vercel.com/integrations/tidb-cloud), you can add or remove connections inside the integration.

1. In your Vercel dashboard, click **Integrations**.
2. Click **Manage** in the TiDB Cloud entry.
3. Click **Configure**.
4. Click **Add Link** or **Remove** to add or remove connections.

    ![Vercel Integration Configuration Page](/media/tidb-cloud/vercel/integration-vercel-configuration-page.png)

>     When you remove a connection, environment variables set by the integration workflow are removed from the Vercel project either. The traffic filter and the data of the TiDB Cloud cluster are not affected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    When you remove a connection, the environment variables set by the integration workflow are removed from the Vercel project, too. However, this action does not affect the traffic filter or the data of the TiDB Cloud cluster.
```

> ## Connect with TiDB Serverless branching

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Connect with TiDB Serverless branching
```

> Vercel [Preview Deployments](https://vercel.com/docs/deployments/preview-deployments) allow you to preview changes to your app in a live deployment without merging those changes to your Git project's production branch. [TiDB Serverless Branching](/tidb-cloud/branch-overview.md) allows you to create a new instance for each branch of your Vercel project. This allows you to preview changes to your app in a live deployment without affecting your production data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Vercel's [Preview Deployments](https://vercel.com/docs/deployments/preview-deployments) feature allows you to preview changes to your app in a live deployment without merging those changes to your Git project's production branch. With [TiDB Serverless Branching](/tidb-cloud/branch-overview.md), you can create a new instance for each branch of your Vercel project. This allows you to preview app changes in a live deployment without affecting your production data.
```

> **Note:**
>
> Only [Vercel projects associated with GitHub repositories](https://vercel.com/docs/deployments/git/vercel-for-github) are supported for now.

To enable TiDB Serverless Branching, you need to:

1. Select **Cluster** as your connection type. 
2. Enable TiDB Serverless Branching in the TiDB Cloud Vercel integration workflow.

After you push changes to GitHub repository, Vercel will trigger a preview deployment. And then TiDB Cloud integration will automatically create a TiDB Serverless branch for the branch and set environment variables. The detailed steps are as follows:

1. Create a new branch in your Git repository.

    ```shell
    cd tidb-prisma-vercel-demo1
    git checkout -b new-branch
    ```

2. Add some changes and push the changes to the remote repository.
3. Vercel will trigger a preview deployment for the new branch.

>     ![Vercel Preview_Deployment](/media/tidb-cloud/vercel/vercel-preview-deployment.png)

Reviewer: 截图可以保持统一的风格吗，建议都用白色

>     a. During the deployment, TiDB Cloud integration will automatically create a TiDB Serverless branch, of which the name is the same as the git branch name. If the TiDB Serverless branch already exists, TiDB Cloud integration will skip this step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    a. During the deployment, TiDB Cloud integration will automatically create a TiDB Serverless branch with the same name as the git branch. If the TiDB Serverless branch already exists, TiDB Cloud integration will skip this step.
```

    ![TiDB_Cloud_Branch_Check](/media/tidb-cloud/vercel/tidbcloud-branch-check.png)

    b. After the TiDB Serverless branch is ready, TiDB Cloud integration will set environment variables in the preview deployment for the Vercel project.

    ![Preview_Envs](/media/tidb-cloud/vercel/preview-envs.png)

    c. TiDB Cloud integration will also register a blocking check to wait for the TiDB Serverless branch to be ready. You can rerun the check manually.
4. After the check is passed, you can visit the preview deployment to see the changes.

> **Note:**
>
> For each organization in TiDB Cloud, you can create a maximum of five TiDB Serverless branches by default. To avoid exceeding the limit, you can delete the TiDB Serverless branches that are no longer needed. For more information, see [Manage TiDB Serverless branches](/tidb-cloud/branch-manage.md).

> # Connect via manually setting environment variables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Connect via manually setting environment variables
```

<SimpleTab>
<div label="Cluster">

1. Get the connection information of your TiDB cluster.

>    You can get the connection information from the connection dialog of your cluster. To open the dialog, go to the [**Clusters**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters) page of your project, click the name of your target cluster to go to its overview page, and then click **Connect** in the upper-right corner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You can get the connection information from the connection dialog of your cluster. To open the dialog, go to the [**Clusters**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters) page of your project, click the name of your target cluster to go to its overview page, and then click **Connect** in the upper-right corner.
```

2. Go to your Vercel dashboard > Vercel project > **Settings** > **Environment Variables**, and then [declare each environment variable value](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/projects/environment-variables#declare-an-environment-variable) according to the connection information of your TiDB cluster.

>    ![Vercel Environment Variables](/media/tidb-cloud/vercel/integration-vercel-environment-variables.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ![Vercel Environment Variables](/media/tidb-cloud/vercel/integration-vercel-environment-variables.png)
```

    When you remove a connection, the environment variables set by the integration workflow are removed from the Vercel project, too. However, this action does not affect the data of the TiDB Serverless cluster.

### Connect with TiDB Serverless branching

Vercel's [Preview Deployments](https://vercel.com/docs/deployments/preview-deployments) feature allows you to preview changes to your app in a live deployment without merging those changes to your Git project's production branch. With [TiDB Serverless Branching](/tidb-cloud/branch-overview.md), you can create a new instance for each branch of your Vercel project. This allows you to preview app changes in a live deployment without affecting your production data.

> **Note:**
>
> Currently, TiDB Serverless branching only supports [Vercel projects associated with GitHub repositories](https://vercel.com/docs/deployments/git/vercel-for-github).

To enable TiDB Serverless Branching, you need to ensure the following in the [TiDB Cloud Vercel integration workflow](#integration-workflow):

1. Select **Cluster** as your connection type. 
2. Enable **Branching** to create new branches for preview environments.

> After you push changes to the Git repository, Vercel will trigger a preview deployment. TiDB Cloud integration will automatically create a TiDB Serverless branch for the branch and set environment variables. The detailed steps are as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After you push changes to the Git repository, Vercel will trigger a preview deployment. TiDB Cloud integration will automatically create a TiDB Serverless branch for the Git branch and set environment variables. The detailed steps are as follows:
```

1. Create a new branch in your Git repository.

    ```shell
    cd tidb-prisma-vercel-demo1
    git checkout -b new-branch
    ```

2. Add some changes and push the changes to the remote repository.
3. Vercel will trigger a preview deployment for the new branch.

    ![Vercel Preview_Deployment](/media/tidb-cloud/vercel/vercel-preview-deployment.png)

    1. During the deployment, TiDB Cloud integration will automatically create a TiDB Serverless branch with the same name as the Git branch. If the TiDB Serverless branch already exists, TiDB Cloud integration will skip this step.

        ![TiDB_Cloud_Branch_Check](/media/tidb-cloud/vercel/tidbcloud-branch-check.png)

    2. After the TiDB Serverless branch is ready, TiDB Cloud integration will set environment variables in the preview deployment for the Vercel project.

        ![Preview_Envs](/media/tidb-cloud/vercel/preview-envs.png)

    3. TiDB Cloud integration will also register a blocking check to wait for the TiDB Serverless branch to be ready. You can rerun the check manually.
4. After the check is passed, you can visit the preview deployment to see the changes.

> **Note:**
>

> > Due to a limitation of Vercel deployment workflow, the environment variable can't be ensured to be set in the deployment. In this case, you need to redeploy the deployment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Due to a limitation of Vercel deployment workflow, the environment variable cannot be ensured to be set in the deployment. In this case, you need to redeploy the deployment.
```

2. Go to your Vercel dashboard > Vercel project > **Settings** > **Environment Variables**, and then [declare each environment variable value](https://vercel.com/docs/concepts/projects/environment-variables#declare-an-environment-variable) according to the connection information of your Data App.

   ![Vercel Environment Variables](/media/tidb-cloud/vercel/integration-vercel-environment-variables.png)

   In Vercel, you can declare the environment variables as follows.

   - **Key** = `DATA_APP_BASE_URL`
   - **Value** = `<DATA_APP_BASE_URL>`
   - **Key** = `DATA_APP_PUBLIC_KEY`
   - **Value** = `<DATA_APP_PUBLIC_KEY>`
   - **Key** = `DATA_APP_PRIVATE_KEY`

>    - **Value** = `<DATA_APP_PRIVATE_KEY>`

Reviewer: please use 4 space indentation
